Introduction:
Spotify’s Popularity Index is a metric introduced by Spotify, one of the largest music streaming platforms in the world, as a way to quantify the popularity of a song relative to the other songs on its platform. The Spotify Popularity Index is not only a unit of measurement, but it can also determine whether a song is recommended to users through the app’s algorithm-generated playlists and shuffle feature. However, the Spotify Popularity Index is a hidden metric - Spotify refuses to publicly release the formula or algorithm that determines a song’s Popularity Index. Our goal is to crack this “black box” by designing a model to predict a song’s Spotify Popularity Index, taking in factors such as popularity metrics (i.e. number of streams), genre, and audio features. We will then evaluate its accuracy by comparing our prediction with the song’s actual Spotify Popularity Index. 

Dataset overview:
We will be mainly using the Spotify Million Song Dataset from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amitanshjoshi/spotify-1million-tracks); we believe that the sheer size of the dataset will allow us to build and train the most accurate and generalizable model possible. This dataset contains the artist’s name, track name, unique Spotify track id, year released, genre, objective audio features (i.e. key, time signature, tempo) as well as Spotify-specific audio features (i.e. valence, danceability, energy), in addition to the track’s Spotify Popularity Score that we are aiming to predict. 
Although most of the independent variables we want to use are contained in the dataset, we plan on obtaining the number of streams for each track by scraping the https://kworb.net/ website, and and any additional information we may need for our model using the Spotify for Developers Web API, most likely through the Spotipy Python library. We will easily be able to get this information since the original dataset includes each song’s unique Spotify track id, facilitating simple lookup. 

Analysis overview: 
	We will begin by using Pandas to perform any necessary cleaning and preprocessing to the original dataset, before adding any additional variables (columns) needed using information obtained from the Spotify Web API and web scraping https://kworb.net/, which has information on Spotify song streaming statistics .
	We will then split the data into training, testing, and validation segments, and then generate and test a number of different models, with the Spotify Popularity Index as the dependent variable and various combinations of the other variables as the independent variables. Potential methods include simple linear regression, random forest regression, SVM regression, lasso regression etc. We will then analyze which independent variables carry the most weight in our models, and evaluate our models’ predictive accuracy. From there, we can also perform additional analyses, i.e. create different models for songs from different times periods or for songs of different genres. 
